question number seven our final question
do scribal errors in textual variants
significantly impact any teaching of
Jesus or any important Christian
teaching let me start by saying that
when Craig says that the following view
is a view of skeptics that we don't have
the originals
we have only copies that thousands of
copies have thousands and ten thousands
of mistakes when he calls that the view
of skeptics it's true that is the view
of skeptics and it's the view of non
skeptics it's the view of every scholar
who works in this field including Craig
everybody agrees we don't have the
originals we have thousands of copies
and the thousands of copies have tens if
not hundreds of thousands of differences
among them are any of these difference
is important or are they all fluff did
Jesus say let the one who is without sin
be the first to cast a stone at her it's
a wonderful and familiar saying of Jesus
but it's based on a scribal variation
that is an error it was not originally
in the New Testament Gospels as Craig
has just told us did Jesus say neither
do i condemn you go and sin no more
well does it matter whether it whether
Jesus said it or not
turns out it's only in a textual variant
it was not in the original New Testament
did Jesus say go into all the world and
preach the gospel to the whole creation
he who believes in me and his baptized
will be saved but he who does not will
be condemned it's found only in a
textual variant these are the signs that
will accompany those who believe in my
name they will cast out demons they will
speak in new tongues they will pick up
serpents and if they drink any deadly
thing it will not hurt them they will
lay their hands on the sick and they
will recover does it matter if Jesus
said it it certainly matters to the
Christian groups in the Appalachian
Mountains who practice snake handling as
part of their worship services did Jesus
give the entire Lord's Prayer or just
half of it as in Luke does it matter it
depends on which manuscript you read or
do other textual variants matter
does it matter whether the doctrine of
the Trinity is explicitly taught in the
New Testament the only verse that comes
close to teaching it directly is first
John chapter 5 verses 7 & 8
there are three that bear witness in
heaven the father the word and the
spirit and these three are one does it
matter if that's in the New Testament
does it matter whether the Gospel of
John ever calls Jesus the unique God or
not it's based on the textual variant
does it matter whether the Gospel of
Luke teaches a doctrine of atonement or
not the view that Jesus died for the
sake of others it depends on a textual
variant does it matter if Jesus was in
such agony before his arrest that he
sweat blood it's found in only a single
textual variant of the Gospel of Luke
doesn't matter that entire words lines
paragraphs and pages were left out by
some scribes does it matter that there
are numerous places in the New Testament
where scholars cannot decide what the
original text said does it matter that
there are some places where we will
never know what the original author said
does that matter or not
many of angelical scholars claim that it
doesn't matter but I don't believe them
because these scholars devote their
lives to studying the Greek manuscripts
why would they do that if it doesn't
matter major of angelical seminaries
raised hundreds of thousands of dollars
for manuscript projects to study these
manuscripts why would they do that if it
doesn't matter it does matter is the
Bible a trustworthy reliable guide if so
what if we don't know what it originally
said for some people these facts don't
matter and if you're one of them well
and good but if you're someone for whom
this does matter then I would urge you
to start reading and start thinking
about the Gospels of the New Testament
as critical scholars have described them